tutorials/Docking/README.md, before:

# Oxford Computational Biochemistry Docking Tutorial

## Contents

This tutorial teaches the basics of molecular docking.

Here we dock small molecules indinavir and nelfinavir into HIV-1 protease.

## Getting started

Please see [https://bigginlab.github.io/OxCompBio/docking.html](https://bigginlab.github.io/OxCompBio/docking.html) for the tutorial instructions, including installation instructions for the software below.

In order to set everything up before the tutorial, you need to complete the following sections:

2. Installing the packages locally
3. Obtaining the data files and checking it all works

The actual tutorial starts at section 4.

### Requirements

The following software installations are required to do this workshop:

For the molecular docking calculations:
- [Autodock Vina](http://vina.scripps.edu/)

For analysis and visualisation:
- [Pymol](https://pymol.org/2/)

For system preparation:
- [ADFR](https://ccsb.scripps.edu/adfr/downloads/)
- openbabel (http://openbabel.org/wiki/Main_Page)

Alternative for system preparation (optional):
- [AutodockTools](http://autodock.scripps.edu/resources/adt)

For electrostatics visualization
- [APBS](http://www.poissonboltzmann.org/)

Commit message:

Add links in to other setup pages

tutorials/Docking/README.md, after:

# Oxford Computational Biochemistry Docking Tutorial

## Contents

This tutorial teaches the basics of molecular docking.

Here we dock small molecules indinavir and nelfinavir into HIV-1 protease.

## Getting started

Please see [https://bigginlab.github.io/OxCompBio/docking.html](https://bigginlab.github.io/OxCompBio/docking.html) for the tutorial instructions, including installation instructions for the software below.

In order to set everything up before the tutorial, you need to complete the following sections:

2. Installing the packages locally
3. Obtaining the data files and checking it all works

The actual tutorial starts at section 4.

You can navigate to the other setup instructions through the following:

- [Return to the main setup instructions](../../setup.md)
- [Python tutorial setup instructions](../Python/setup.md)
- [MD tutorial setup instructions](../MD/setup.md)
- [Homology Modelling setup instructions](../Homology-Modelling/setup.md)


## Requirements

The following software installations are required to do this workshop:

For the molecular docking calculations:
- [Autodock Vina](http://vina.scripps.edu/)

For analysis and visualisation:
- [Pymol](https://pymol.org/2/)

For system preparation:
- [ADFR](https://ccsb.scripps.edu/adfr/downloads/)
- openbabel (http://openbabel.org/wiki/Main_Page)

Alternative for system preparation (optional):
- [AutodockTools](http://autodock.scripps.edu/resources/adt)

For electrostatics visualization
- [APBS](http://www.poissonboltzmann.org/)
